
- [[#Tuples Indexing|Tuples Indexing]]
- [[#Tuples Slicing|Tuples Slicing]]
- [[#Tuples and Assignments|Tuples and Assignments]]
- [[#Tuples Functions|Tuples Functions]]

Tuples are another kinds of sequence that function much like a list they have elements which are indexed starting at 0.

```python
# Tuple example

x = ("Glenn", "Sally", "Joesph")
print (x)

**output:**
--------
('Glenn', 'Sally', 'Joesph')
```

```python
y = (9, 10, 11)

for iter in y:
    print(iter)
    
**output:**
--------
9
10
11
```

Tuples are immutable, unlike a list once you create tuple, you cannot alter it contents similar to String.

Tuples are used to store multiple items in a single variable.

Tuple is one of 4 built-in data types in Python used to store collections of data, the other 3 are List, Set, and Dictionary, all with different qualities and usage.

A Tuple is a collection which is ordered and unchangeable.

- Tuples are used to store multiple items in a single variable.
- Curve brackets are used.
- Tuples are not mutable.
- Tuples can contain any type of data together.
- Indexing is starting from 0.
- Tuples allow negative indexing.
- Several functions are available for operations in tuples.

    <aside> 
    💡 e.g: (2,3,4,51,1) is a numeric Tuple
    </aside>


```python
# Tuple
T = (2,3,4,51,1)
    
# checking for the type of datatype
type(T) => tuple
```


```python
# Tuple can be created like this
T1 = 2,3,45,6,7,89
T1 => (2, 3, 45, 6, 7, 89)
    
# checking for the type of datatype
type(T1) => tuple
```


**Tuples are more efficient**

- Since Python does not have to build tuple structure to be modifiable, they are simpler and more efficient in terms of memory use and performance than lists.
- So in our program when we are making temporary variables we prefer tuples over lists.

##### Tuples Indexing
- The indexing for Tuples starts from zero.
- Tuples allows negative Indexing.

```python
# Tuple
T1 = (2,3,45,6,7,89)
# Indexing
T1[0] => 2
```

##### Tuples Slicing

Same as the Slicing method as list.

```python
# Tuple
T1 = (2,3,45,6,7,89)

# Slicing method same as list
T1[1:4] => (3, 45, 6)
```

##### Tuples and Assignments

We can also put a tuple on the “left hand side: of an assignment statement.
we can omit the parenthesis.

```python
# tuple
(x,y) = (3, "Fred")
a, b = 100,200
```

### Tuples Functions

**.index()**
Index the specific Elements in tuple. This will only return the index value for the first occurrence.

```python
# Tuple
T1 = (2,3,45,6,7,89)

# Index the specific Elements in tuple
T1.index(6) => 3
```

**.Count()**
Counting the specific Elements in tuple.

```python
# Tuple
T1 = (2,3,45,6,7,89)

# Counting the specific Elements in tuple.
T1.Count(6) => 1
```

**Tuples and Dictionaries**
The items() method in dictionaries return a list of (key, value) tuples.

```python
# dictionary
d = dict()

d["csev"] =100
d["cwem"] =200

for (k,y) in d.items():
    print(k,y)

**output:**
--------
csev 100
cwem 200
```

**Tuples are comparable**

The comparison operators work with tuples and other sequences. If the first items is equal, python goes on to the next element, and so on until it finds elements that differ.

```python
(0,1,2) < (4,1,3)
(00,1,2) >(0,3,4)

**output:**
--------
True
False
```

**Sorting Lists of Tuples**

- We can take advantage of the ability to sort a list of tuples to get a sorted version of a dictionary.
- First we sort the dictionary by the key using the items() method and sorted() function.

```python
### Sorting List of Tuples
d = {"a":10, "c":22 ,"b":20}

d.items()

**output:**
--------
dict_items([('a', 10), ('c', 22), ('b', 20)])

sorted(d.items())

**output:**
--------
[('a', 10), ('b', 20), ('c', 22)]
```