The Functions are used store a particular action and Reuse it again and again based on requirements.

```python
## Python Functions
def thing():
    print("Hello!")
    print("Fun!")

thing()
print("Zip")
thing()

**Output**:
--------------------------
Hello!
Fun!
Zip
Hello!
Fun!
```

A function is some stored code that we use. A function takes some input and produces an outputs.
#### Arguments

- An **Arguments** is a value we pass into the functions as its inputs when we call the function.
- We use the **Arguments** so we can direct the functions to do different kinds of work when we call it at different times.
- We put the **Arguments** in parentheses after the name of the function.
#### Parameter

A **Parameter** is a variable which we use in the function definition. it is a handle that allows the code in the function to access the arguments for a particular function invocation.

```python
# Language of function
def greet(lang):
    if lang =="es":
        print("Hola!")
    elif lang == "fr":
        print("Bonjour!")
    else:
        print("Hello!")

greet("en")
greet("es")

**Output**:
----------------
Hello!
Hola!
```

#### Return Values

Often a function will take its arguments, do some computation, and **return** a value of the function call in the calling expression. The **return** keyword is used for this.

```python
# Return Value
def greet():
    return "Hello"

print(greet(), "Sally")
print(greet(), "Glenn")

**Output**:
----------------
Hello Sally
Hello Glenn
```

- A “fruitful” function is one that produces a result (or return value).
- The return statement ends the function execution and “send back” the result of the functions.

#### Void (non-fruitful) Functions

- When a function does not return a value, we call it a “void” function.
- Functions that return values are “fruitful” Functions.
- Void function are “not fruitful”.

#### To Function or not to Function

- Organize your code into “paragraphs” - capture a complete thought and “name it”.
- Don’t repeat yourself - make it work once and then reuse it.
- If something gets too long or complex, break it up into logical chunks and put those chunks in functions.
- Make a library of common stuff that you do over and over - perhaps share this with your friends.