The SQL `ALTER` statement allows you to add, delete, or modify columns in an existing table. You can also use it to change table constraints and other properties.
```
ALTER TABLE table_name 
alter_specification;
```
Where:
- `table_name` is the name of the table you want to modify.
- `alter_specification` is one or more alter specifications, separated by commas.

Here are some examples of alter specifications:

**Add a new column**:
```SQL
ALTER TABLE customers 
ADD COLUMN phone VARCHAR(255) NOT NULL;
```
This statement adds a new column called `phone` to the `customers` table. The `phone` column is a `VARCHAR` data type that can store up to 255 characters and cannot contain `NULL` values.

**Modify datatype an existing column:**
``` SQL
ALTER TABLE customers 
MODIFY COLUMN email VARCHAR(100);
```
This statement modifies the `email` column in the `customers` table to be a `VARCHAR` data type that can store up to 100 characters.

**Drop a Column**
``` SQL
ALTER TABLE employees
DROP COLUMN hire_date;
```
This statement drop the `hire_date` column from the `employees` table.

**Rename a Column**
``` SQL
ALTER TABLE employees
RENAME COLUMN email TO email_address;
```
This statement renames the `email` column to `email_address`in `employees` table.

**Add a constraint**
``` SQL
ALTER TABLE customers
ADD PRIMARY KEY (id);
```
This statement adds a primary key constraint to the `customers` table. The primary key constraint ensures that the `id` column contains unique values and cannot contain `NULL` values.

**Remove a constraint**
``` SQL
ALTER TABLE customers 
DROP PRIMARY KEY;
```

This statement Removes a primary key constraint to the `customers` table.


Refer [[1.4 SQL Data Type]] to understand Data Type that can be used in SQL defining each columns.